# March 25 2020

Went out for a leisurely 10.7 k walk this morning so work fragmented.

## The bad
[Read from bottom]

>REALLY UPSET BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS
The CEO posted a self-congratulatory blurb about how they had contributed to CORD-19. In fact T+F is one of the worst Paywallers with up to 90% of 
material behind a paywall. CORD-19 is a drop in the ocean, so I searched for other epidemic-related concepts. Here's some of my tweets.


>12/12 If YOU are responsible for buying subscription content from TAYLOR&FRANCIS read this thread & ask whether you can live with yourself when  90% of "their" papers on "surgical masks" are behind a PAYWALL.
Play PaywallBingo on T+F site  for pandemic issues (e.g. "ventilators")

>11/ So Taylor and Francis trade on citizens not knowing the byzantine complexity of finding scholarly information. 
I discovered the free version because of a wonder tool upnpaywall.org. Install this today.
Heather Piwowar and Jason Priem are wonderful @researchremix

>10/
the Taylor and Francis article I've mentioned (that costs you 40 POUNDS for 10 pages is available for FREE at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/P…

>But TAYLOR and FRANCIS don't tell you this. They ask you for 40 GBP.
So T+F are putting FREE material behind a PAYWALL.

>Paul Bernal @PaulbernalUK

>Now Jeremy Hunt confirms that they *were* following ‘the herd immunity approach’ (his words) to start with. As we knew. As they keep on denying now.

>Johnson is now effectively the Roman Emperor he wanted to be. We have Nero and Caligula running the UK.
Tim Walker @ThatTimWalker

>The fates have conspired to allow Johnson to do what he always wanted and to close Parliament tonight. I’ve worked with him and know he cannot be trusted: the only rational way forward now is a government of national unity.

>9/ And yes, you can't personally read all those papers.
But software can.
Open Source software like the stuff I and others are writing.
@mikegalsworthy
@glynmoody 
@rmounce 
@doctorow 
@Senficon
Publisher paywalls mean people die.

>8/ If you read all TAYLOR AND FRANCIS articles on "surgical masks" it would cost you personally about 600,000 GBP.
That's not a misprint.
For a single person at home making their own masks for COVID19 they'd have to pay HALF A MILLION POUNDS to read Taylor and Francis papers

>7/ and now lets read the article...

PAY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS 40 POUNDS to read a single paper on respiratory protection.
That's the real contribution that T+F make
SHAREHOLDER PROFITS out of a deadly epidemic.

>6/ Trying to read a Taylor And Francis paper on respiratory practice:

>5/ Here's a typical paper:
Any high school student can see that it would be valuable today.

>Let's try to read it
[hits paywall]

>4/ Go to tandfonline.com 
Type in "surgical mask"
You'll see:
[metadata for paper]
 
>3/ about 90% of all Taylor and Francis papers are PAYWALLED. That means many health care workers can't  read them. 
And certainly not volunteers making masks. You will be charged about 40 dollars for EACH PAYWALLED PAPER.
Let's "play" T+F PaywallBingo. A 10-year old can. do it...

>2/ And in contrast the worst thing I have read for a long time is the self-congratulatory message from CEO of Taylor and Francis.
newsroom.taylorandfrancisgroup.com/message-from-a…
They've made a piddling amount of material available to CORD19 (which you need geek tools to read)

